Spread.
So as we discussed ask price is always above the bid price and you will always pay more to buy one unit
of base currency then you will get when you sell one unit of base currency.
And that difference between the ask and the bid price is called the spread.
So let's calculate the spread for this particular example for the British pound the Australian dollar
currency pair.
When the prices were as they're illustrated on this chart.
So the spread is the OSC minus the bid that means 1.8 873 minus 1.8 8 6 6 and that means zero point
zero zero 0 7.
So that means less than one Australian cent that is point 0 7 are going straight and said and this is
illustrated in dollars because the currency pair is British pound Australian dollar so Australian dollar
is the quoted currency.
Remember our examples of apples so British pound here is like the apple and Australian dollar is the
currency that it's been valued in.
So in this instance the spread is point 0 7 of an Australian cent which is very low in our kind of understanding
of the world that when we go to an exchange booth the spread is usually at least a couple of cents maybe
maybe a dollar or so on certain currency pairs.
But on the forex market the spreads very low and this is called very tight spreads.
And that's.
That's right because when you do very large transactions like banks do or when you've got hundreds and
thousands of Patris participants participating brokers have they make up some money from the volume
and the quantity of transactions so simply put the brokers actually earn this money or the banks and
brokers that kind of share the spread.
And this is your cost of conducting a transaction on the forex market.
So if you ever want to participate and open a trade you would always pay the spread because you would
buy it ask price for instance and then when you close the order you'd close it at the big price.
So you inherit and we always pay the spread in any transaction and that's a cost of participating in
the market and whether or not you make money that's that's completely up to you.
And that in a in a good broker that has nothing to do with them.
They make money off of spreads and other things like commissions and swaps which we'll talk about later
.